.TH BMCINV 1 "March 2026" "bmcinv 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bmcinv \- BMC Inventory Tool for datacenter hardware inventory via Redfish API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bmcinv
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bmcinv
is a read-only hardware inventory tool that queries servers via their BMC interfaces
(Dell iDRAC, HPE iLO, IPMI) using the Redfish API. It caches detailed hardware information
in a local SQLite database, enabling fast searches across serial numbers, MAC addresses,
and other component identifiers.
.PP
The tool supports smart credential management, allowing different passwords for different
BMC types in datacenter environments.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B scan \fI<cidr|ip>\fR
Scan BMC endpoints and collect hardware inventory. Supports single IPs or CIDR ranges.
.TP
.B find \fI<string>\fR
Search for a string across all hardware components (servers, memory, storage, networks).
Supports MAC addresses, serial numbers, hostnames, and manufacturer names.
.TP
.B export
Export inventory data to CSV or JSON format.
.TP
.B status
Show database and configuration status, including credential overview and statistics.
.TP
.B help
Display help information about any command.
.TP
.B completion
Generate shell autocompletion scripts for bash, zsh, fish, or powershell.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Global Options
.TP
.BR \-\-config " " \fIfile\fR
Use alternate config file (default: ~/.bmcinv/config.yaml)
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message
.SS Scan Options
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-workers " " \fIn\fR
Number of parallel workers (default from config, typically 10)
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout " " \fIseconds\fR
Timeout per host in seconds
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-export
Export to CSV/JSON after scan (command chaining)
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-export\-dir " " \fIdir\fR
Export output directory (default: current directory)
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\-export\-format " " \fIformat\fR
Export format: csv or json (default: csv)
.SS Find Options
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-exact
Exact match only (no wildcards)
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-limit " " \fIn\fR
Maximum results per table (default: 100)
.TP
.BR \-T ", " \-\-type " " \fItype\fR
Limit search to type: server, memory, storage, or network
.SS Export Options
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format " " \fIformat\fR
Output format: csv or json (default: csv)
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIdir\fR
Output directory or file
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file is located at \fB~/.bmcinv/config.yaml\fR and is created
automatically on first run. It supports different credentials per BMC type:
.PP
.RS
.nf
credentials:
  idrac:
    username: root
    password: calvin
  ilo:
    username: Administrator
    password: your-password
  ipmi:
    username: ADMIN
    password: ADMIN

scan:
  workers: 10
  timeout_secs: 30
  retry_attempts: 2

database:
  path: ~/.bmcinv/inventory.db
.fi
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Scan a single server:
.B bmcinv scan 192.168.1.100
.TP
Scan an entire subnet:
.B bmcinv scan 192.168.1.0/24
.TP
Scan and export to CSV:
.B bmcinv scan 10.0.0.0/24 --export -o ~/backup
.TP
Scan and export as JSON:
.B bmcinv scan 10.0.0.0/24 -e -F json
.TP
Find by MAC address:
.B bmcinv find 00:1B:21:AB:CD:EF
.TP
Find by RAM serial number:
.B bmcinv find MEM12345678
.TP
Find all Samsung memory:
.B bmcinv find Samsung --type memory
.TP
Find all Dell servers:
.B bmcinv find "Dell Inc."
.TP
Export all data to CSV:
.B bmcinv export -o ~/inventory
.TP
Export to JSON:
.B bmcinv export -f json -o ~/inventory.json
.TP
Show inventory status:
.B bmcinv status
.TP
Enable bash completion:
.B bmcinv completion bash > /etc/bash_completion.d/bmcinv
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.bmcinv/config.yaml
Configuration file with credentials and settings
.TP
.I ~/.bmcinv/inventory.db
SQLite database containing cached inventory data
.SH DATABASE SCHEMA
The tool maintains the following tables:
.TP
.B servers
IP, vendor, model, chassis serial, BIOS version, hostname, scan timestamp
.TP
.B memory
Slot, capacity, speed, type, manufacturer, part number, serial number, health
.TP
.B storage
Slot, media type, protocol, capacity, manufacturer, model, serial number, health
.TP
.B networks
Port, MAC address, IP address, link status, speed, manufacturer, model
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error (invalid arguments, scan failure, etc.)
.SH SECURITY
Credentials are stored in plain text in the config file. Ensure appropriate
file permissions (600) are set on ~/.bmcinv/config.yaml.
.PP
The tool only performs read operations on BMC interfaces. It does not modify
server configurations.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/Maxsander123/bmcinv/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Maxsander123
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipmitool (1),
.BR racadm (1)
.PP
Project homepage: https://github.com/Maxsander123/bmcinv
